Contributing to DataProvider
=============================

MachineDataProvider service is responsible to provide machine data exposed via sensors in an upside down model. There are many ways to contribute, improving the documentation, submitting bug reports and feature requests or writing code which can be incorporated into MachineDataProvider itself.

Bug reports
-----------

If you think you have found a bug in MachineDataProvider, first make sure that you are testing against the [latest version of MachineDataProvider]() - your issue may already have been fixed. If not, search our [issues list](https://github.com/s-m-sufyian/machine-data-provider/issues) on GitHub in case a similar issue has already been opened.

It is very helpful if you can prepare a reproduction of the bug. In other words, provide a small test case which we can run to confirm your bug. It makes it easier to find the problem and to fix it. 
Provide as much information as you can.The faster it is to recreate the issue the faster it can be fixed.

Feature requests
----------------

If you find yourself wishing for a feature that doesn't exist in MachineDataProvider.
Open an issue on our [issues list](https://github.com/s-m-sufyian/machine-data-provider/issues) on GitHub which describes the feature you would like to see, why you need it, and how it should work.

Contributing code and documentation changes
-------------------------------------------

If you have a bug fix or new feature that you would like to contribute to MachineDataProvider, please find or open an issue about it first. Talk about what you would like to do. It may be that somebody is already working on it, or that there are particular issues that you should know about before implementing the change.

There are many approaches to fixing a problem and it is important to find the best approach before writing too much code.

Note that it is unlikely the project will merge refactors for the sake of refactoring. These
types of pull requests have a high cost to maintainers in reviewing and testing with little
to no tangible benefit. This especially includes changes generated by tools. For example,
converting all generic interface instances to use the diamond operator.

The process for contributing to [MachineDataProvider Repository](https://github.com/s-m-sufyian/machine-data-provider) is Github flow model.

### Branch out from master

You will need to branch out from the the MachineDataProvider [master branch](https://github.com/s-m-sufyian/machine-data-provider#master). 

Further instructions for specific projects are given below.

### Submitting your changes

Once your changes and tests are ready to submit for review:

1. Test your changes locally

    Run the test suite to make sure that nothing is broken. See the
[TESTING](TESTING.asciidoc) file for help running tests.

2. Make sure that the code coverage is above 90% 
   
   If the test coverage is less then 90% then the pull request creation will fail , this helps in ensuring reliability of the code

3. Make sure to apply linter with reference to editors config on the branch 
   
   If the code formatting is not as per editor's config then the pull request creation will fail, this ensures us to maintain uniform
   coding formats.

4. Make sure that the push contains logically grouped commits.   
   
   Logically grouped commits makes it easy for reviewer to review code and get context,if not rewrite commit 
   history  
    
5. Submit a pull request

   On submitting the pull request couples of tests will be executed to ensure reliability,coding standards and code formatting. Sit back and wait 
   there will probably be discussion about the pull request and, if any changes are needed, we would love to work with you to get your pull request merged into the master branch.